Add spotlight for Ilan Rabinovitch (#348)
jenkins-infra/contributor-spotlight: src/pages/contributors/ilan-rabinovitch.adoc

Over the last 12 years, there's been a lot of changes within Jenkins and with the CI community in general, and I think the move to a Pipeline as Code approach, whether in Jenkins or elsewhere, has been a welcomed change for me.
It enables a lot of the same best practices we wanted to have around how we built our software to how we define our pipelines.
So it's a natural progression, but it's one that took a while.
I think if we say we've been working together for 12 to 15 years now, probably for more than half that we didn't have Pipeline as Code and so it was a breath of fresh air when it came. 
Thinking back when we first started working together, containers weren't a thing, Kubernetes wasn't a thing, cloud was in its infancy, and DevOps was in its infancy.

Really what's changed is that CI is now the default: people don't build software without it.
What you do with those artifacts has changed, maybe you're not pushing a JAR or a WAR up somewhere anymore.
These days you're maybe pushing a container image, and these are all things that Jenkins, as the Swiss Army knife of CI, has been very good at adapting to and it's so exciting to see how that continues to evolve.

> We saw similar evolutions in other open-source software throughout the twenty-odd years of SCaLE.
> Back in 2002 when we were just getting started, when we would call up companies or organizations about joining us at SCaLE and they'd ask "What's an open source?"
> Now, it's very rare to encounter an organization that's not using any open source or not using open-source software by default.
> We saw a similar trend with containers, like when Jérôme Petazzoni showed up at SCaLE the first time to give a Docker workshop.
> I don't think most of the audience had ever heard of Docker, let alone used it.
> Now, I can't imagine a software project launching or starting that isn't using some form of containerization or orchestration, since that's become the default.
> So that's been one of the fun parts of being part of SCaLE for over two decades now, is we get to see these trends come and go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We saw similar evolutions in other open-source software throughout the twenty-odd years of SCaLE.
Back in 2002, when we were just getting started, when we would call up companies or organizations about joining us at SCaLE, and they'd ask: "What's open-source?"
Now, it's very rare to encounter an organization that's not using any open-source software or is not using open-source software by default.
We saw a similar trend with containers, like when Jérôme Petazzoni showed up at SCaLE the first time to give a Docker workshop.
I don't think most of the audience had ever heard of Docker, let alone used it.
Now, I can't imagine a software project launching or starting that isn't using some form of containerization or orchestration, since that's become the default.
So that's been one of the fun parts of being part of SCaLE for over two decades now, is we get to see these trends come and go.
```

== What is your background prior to supporting Jenkins?

> I've been involved in the open source community in one way or another for nearly 30 years.

Reviewer 2: this sentence has already been used a lot. may want to delete.

I was working at Edmunds, which is a car pricing site that would help you figure out how to not overpay for your car purchase.
This also meant providing guidance on what cars met your needs, but really the secret sauce of what we did was we knew how much cars should cost, giving people the knowledge and tools to negotiate with dealers.
Like a lot of companies back then, we didn't have a great CI strategy.

There were commercial tools out there that existed for doing CI or at least for doing build and release, but it wasn't by any means the default of how companies operated and developed software.
It might be what they aspired to do, but it wasn't what they were doing.
So we started playing with Hudson, later Jenkins, as tooling to take that on.
From there, Jenkins just became a part of my tool belt and many other engineers' tool belts over the years for doing everything from some level of orchestration and job management, to build and CI, to other things.
I think it enabled an early generation of CI adopters to really pick up and change the way they develop software.

> == Have you seen any aspects of Jenkins influence other open source projects?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Have you seen any aspects of Jenkins influence other open-source projects?
```

That potential for collaboration is what drives us to bring in open-source communities.
The other way we foster the idea of cross-pollination is hosting a bunch of co-located events with SCaLE, that let those open-source communities bring their community to SCaLE alongside another community that might be at SCaLE.

When we first got started working with Jenkins, I don't think a lot of people knew what Jenkins or CI was, since this was the infancy of the DevOps movement.
I think our first interaction with Jenkins was probably Kohsuke showing up and giving a bunch of talks about link:https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale11x/presentations/introducing-continuous-integration-jenkins.html[why CI matters and why you should adopt Jenkins].
Now, I think we've been working together for probably 10 or 12 years out of the 15 that Jenkins has been around.
For us, it was really exciting to have a project, that was becoming a foundational component of how we worked every day, come out and we wanted our community to learn about these concepts of CI, CD, and testing so that they could apply it within their own work.

> I would say the booth has been a more recent development that we've continued to do, but there have been link:https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/14x/presentations/continuous-delivery-infrastructure-jenkins[numerous workshops and trainings] for our community as well, and it's all about that education and sort of passing it forward.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I would say the booth has been a more recent development, but there have been link:https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/14x/presentations/continuous-delivery-infrastructure-jenkins[numerous workshops and trainings] for our community as well, and it's all about that education and passing it forward.
```

We saw similar evolutions in other open-source software throughout the twenty-odd years of SCaLE.
Back in 2002 when we were just getting started, when we would call up companies or organizations about joining us at SCaLE and they'd ask "What's an open source?"
Now, it's very rare to encounter an organization that's not using any open source or not using open-source software by default.
We saw a similar trend with containers, like when Jérôme Petazzoni showed up at SCaLE the first time to give a Docker workshop.
I don't think most of the audience had ever heard of Docker, let alone used it.
Now, I can't imagine a software project launching or starting that isn't using some form of containerization or orchestration, since that's become the default.
So that's been one of the fun parts of being part of SCaLE for over two decades now, is we get to see these trends come and go.

== How has SCaLE changed or expanded your idea of what open source can look like and have you changed how you view open-source practices or your experiences through SCaLE?

> I think it's hammered in for me that while the word "source" is in the term open source, there's a lot more that open source communities need than just code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I think it's hammered in for me that while the word "source" is in the term open source, there's a lot more that open-source communities need than just code.
```

So we have pre-teens and teenagers showing up at SCaLE and giving 45 minute talks about how they did something with a GPU, Linux, or whatever it might be.
I've now run into kids that were 12 years old 12 years ago, and now they're 24 and working as engineers or product managers, or in some cases even founders of companies.

For example I was at one of the last KubeCons for work purposes, and as I'm walking down the expo floor, this young gentleman runs up to me and says "Ilan do you remember me?"
I couldn't remember and told him that I felt bad not recalling, but he shared that he had given a talk at SCaLE back when he was 12.
I said "you probably look much different in that case" and found out that he's in a leadership role in a very successful tech company.
I think what this has taught me about organizations and open-source communities, is that if you create these on-ramps, onboarding opportunities, and these educational opportunities, it's like planting seeds in a garden where it eventually turns into a forest that becomes self-sustaining.

> If you don't create those things, the community doesn't sort of re-seed itself and refresh itself, so that's something that we need to apply to our open source projects as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you don't create those things, the community doesn't sort of re-seed itself and refresh itself, so that's something that we need to apply to our open-source projects as well.
```

If you don't support it, you're chopping down wood in that forest without necessarily planting the next generation of growth that'll happen there.
When that security vulnerability shows up and you're questioning why someone didn't fix it, it is because the people or company who would have fixed it were not supported.

Beyond that, it's a great education opportunity for the developers in your organizations.
There's so much they can learn from the open-source world in terms of development best practices, new techniques, new software, or other things that they could be using to power whatever your next projects are.
Recruiting is always one of the hardest parts we have as engineering leaders, and if open source is a gateway that helps the next generation learn about these concepts and skills that you need to hire for, continuing to contribute to open source and support open source is a way in which you can, once again using that gardening metaphor, create a bunch of seedlings for the next harvest.

You can support open source in any number of ways, such as letting some of the folks on your team contribute to a project that you're using.

> It could be something like helping to fix bugs, test code, or contribute documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It could be something like helping to fix bugs, test code, or contribute to documentation.
```

> Alternatively, it could be financial contributions either by donating to a foundation or buying software from the companies that write open-source software.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, it could be financial contributions, either by donating to a foundation, or buying software from the companies that write open-source software.
```

Even sharing the stories of how your organization is using, succeeding, and thriving because of the open-source software that you use goes a long way.
Projects live and die not just by the features and the capabilities, which are super important, but if nobody's heard about the project, they're not going to adopt it either.
If nobody's willing to trust it because they don't know that somebody else is using it, they're not going to adopt it.
Case studies, storytelling, and experience sharing are huge for building trust and support.

As we were all trying to figure out what the best practices are around CI and CD, there was a ton of sharing that happened within the Jenkins community on topics like how to build pipelines that result in consistent outputs, tolerating failures, and working around failures.

> We all learned from that when somebody shared that in a talk, in a blog post, in a mailing list, or wherever it might be.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We all learned when somebody shared their issue in a talk, in a blog post, or in a mailing list.
```

> Even if you don't think what you're doing is interesting, it's aspirational and inspirational for somebody who's not doing what you're doing yet and they would benefit from it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even if you don't think what you're doing is interesting, it's aspirational and inspirational for somebody who's not doing what you're doing yet, and they could benefit from it.
```
